GES 1017 Lecture 2 17-8-16
Case study: Jurong Island

Discussion Questions
1. What were the inherent shortcomings that Singapore had in terms of being an oil refinery
and petrochemical hub?

Land constraints, 
lack of large talent pool, relative costs to other countries(salary and land), 
lack of raw materials, 
requires public support(may raise environmental concerns), 
foreign competition, 
huge investment of 7billion, 
what happens when the world turns away from oil?, 
time to wait for the land to be reclaimed and utilities to be built, 
security

2. How did Singapore mitigate these shortcomings? What were Singapore’s strengths?

Reclaimed land,
Scholarships to encourage talents,
Secured anchor tenant,
Leveraged on SG's geographical location (easy to export and import),
Selected firms that could synergize
Strict IP laws(copyright)
Political stability
Plug and play concept(attractive idea)

3. What do you think was the greatest challenge to making Jurong Island a reality?

Lack of land
Investors


4. What were the roles of engineers in creating Jurong Island?

Infrastructure
Minimize environmental impact
Risk assessment
Reduce disruptions to existing firms
Evaluate costs
Designing the whole ecosystem
Future-proofing services

5. Do you think it was the right decision to have a dedicated island for the petrochemical
industry? Why?

YES
Economies of scope
Save on proection costs
Efficient usage of space
Away from the livable parts of Singapore

NO
Easy terrorist attack
An accident on the island will have a huge impact


6. If you were a member of the senior management of a large petrochemical company,
would you have chosen to invest in Jurong Island in view of cheaper alternatives in the
region? Qualitatively explain how you arrived at your decision.



7. What are the challenges that Jurong Island will face in the future? Can you share some ideas from your own knowledge as to how Jurong Island may be able to overcome these
challenges?

Competitiors may offer similar concepts; find out what investors want, and respond to them
Alternative sources of energy will grow in poularity
Maintenance and improvement to facilities and technologies
Terrorist threats
Difficult for the island to change to another industry
Young engineer graduates generally not interested in engineering jobs
Remain a cost-competitive option
Environmental issues (green gas, etc)



List 3-5 challenges in the future, and how they might be overcome. Can write in 2 pages or in 1 big table.


Reasons for Jurong Island: to balance out the cyclical nature of the manufacturing industry's economy
