GES1017 One-North case study 24-8-16

LTA, URA, PUB, NPARKS are all involved in One-North's development (pg7 of case study)

What were some of the key innovations in one-north?
Zigzag sewers
Mixed use concept
UPVC pipes
Micro-vibration free building
E-bidding system (made use of the financial crisis to get a low price for the contract)
Waste conveyor system
One-North app (to intergrate the community)
Fenceless boundary
Cafes, restaurants, and pedestrian zone/areas
Greenery
JTC moved from hardware to sofware
Solar, LED lightings
Park corridors
Block 71


What do you think was the greatest challenge to making One-North a reality?
Building a community
Strike a balance between work-live-play-lear
Master planning (?)
Convincing government agencies
Being environmental
Establishing new guidelines(paperwork)
Coodination between the various government agencies
Cost management, long term vs short term
Special requirements and considerations for labs (hazards, vibration disruptions)
Security vs freedom (how to make security less restrictive)
>>(given answers)
Changing mindsets from single use areas to multi use areas
Competing priorities between work-live-learn-play
Boosting vibrancy (risk of having a ghost town - people heading home right after work)
Amount of detailed planning (heritage value of buildings, selecting trees for conservation, etc) 


What were the roles of engineers in fulfilling the objectives of One-North project?
Develop/create solutions, justifying their solutions
To realize the visionary dream into reality
Managing bidding process/change the bidding process
Engineers build and maintain the green buildings
Determine the ratio
To preserve the buildings
To forsee the future problems
Cost management
To maintain topography
Assess the probability of success of the project (if probability is low, there will be a need for a new project)
Address the land constraints, aesthetics, and costs
Free up space by combining/centralizing common facilities
Build the infrastructure/plan and design/engineering codes are followed/set new standards for laying pre-laid uPVC pipes
Work there/create jobs/R&D


What are the challenges that One-North would face in the future? Could you share any ideas from your own knowledge as to how One-North may be able to overcome these challenges?
Hiring people/lack of track record
Maintenance
Foreign competition
Expansion ideas and direction
Changing industries
Sustain the vibrancy (e.g. through community events)
>>
External(foreign) Competitions
Rising costs of operations


Can or should Singapore build another One-North development? Why?


Comparing Jurong Island and One-North, what are the main differences and similarities?
-Similarity
Huge investments
Hub concept
Economies of scale
Collaboration with other government agencies
Both developed by JTC

-Differences
Differnt industries
People factor/community aspect
Mono use vs mixed used
Difference in security
Asthetic aspects
Accessibility/seamless connectivity
Size (3000He and 200He)
Industry focus
Lead agencies