Port of Singapore 31-8-16

Handling one of the narrowest shipping lanes need extensive planning in advance
Need to scan the ocean floor to check for any unforseen obstructions, because the clearance distance from the floor is only about 3.5m
For a megaship, you need a pilot ship to guide it into the harbor
Ports have been known to overdeclare the refuel amount, so Singapore's reliability is a draw
Singapore build jack-up rigs too, placed in the middle of the sea, for other companies to dig for oil in other countries

Singapore trying to go into Financial Legal Insurance, a step towards a one-stop place for everything ship related
BUNKERNET: Mass flow metering, and establish industry standard to increase transparency, and strong enforcement, international reputation

Singapore provides value-added services (other aspects: safety, reliability)
With new routes opening up in the artic canal(?) Singapore's business might be affected. But as trading continues to grow, Singapore may still be able to survive even with increasing competition.
Singapore has political stability, so companies have the confidence to plan long term
Singapore is good at coordination and intergration, between all the different companies and services, so even with other countries knowing our secret, it is hard for them to replicate it

4 main sectors of Singapore's maritime industry
Port 
Shipping 
Offshore marine engineering 
Shore-based maritimme services





1. What were the challenges in the past and the success facors that led to the rise of the Port of Singapore?


2. What is the role of engineering and technology in the Port of Singapore? How has it changed over the years?


3. How has the servies offered by Port of Singapore change over the years?


4. How did the government policy influence the development of the Singapore port over the years?


6. What are the main challenges for the Port of Singapore in the future? 
Challenging economic situation
Decreasing trade
Competition from ports and maritime clusters
Oil prices are dropping
Changing industry trends

Things like 3D printing: reduce the need for shipping

>Developments of future alternative trade routes
Panama Canal Expansion
Artic Route
Suez Canal Expansion
Kra Canal's possibility?

>Possible Singapore's changes:
Increase our competitive edge
Consolidate the container terminals-
Government free up spaces near the CBD for new businesses to spring up(???)

We can bring certain services near the ports: Warehousing, logistics
We can free up land space, since these services synergizes with the port (important cos other countries can operate at a much lower cost)

Software innovations:
Detect anomalies and illegal activities; closer inspections
Detect obstructions and problems
Plan out routes for the many ships coming into the port
Predict ship arrival times-other service can plan their resources more prescisely, reducing wait times

New innovations:
Clean air and carbon footprints, by controlling emissions from ships, harbor crafts and container handling equipments
Encouraging faster adoption of cleaner fuels eg LNG for harbor crafts and ships
Move from diesel equipment to electrical and battery equipment
Renewable enrgy: solar energy and harnessing the heat energy from machineries

Community-oriented port:
Intergrate terminal operation spaces with community and green open spaces to bring the port closer to the public
Amenities and visitor centres with viewing galleries to attract and engage community
MRT to Tuas Terminal for beter connectivity b/w port and surrounding industries to rest of Singapore

Singapore's response to the new trade routes:
Increase the 'stickyness' to Singapore's port-make their time here so easy and comfortable that many will choose to remain loyal to the Singapore trade route
Efficiency, safety, intelligently in Singapore
Singapore cannot make it cheap, so it aims for value for money. Give more bang for your buck
Encourage companies to set-up their asian Headquarters in Singapore, instead of other possible countries like HongKong, China, etc (???)
Ships need insurance, auditors, legal,(???)
Competitive strategy: Smart-nation, and for graduates with advanced skills to be able to control and manage the data, since everyone has access to powerful technology, but not every country has the people who can harness the tech

Is Singapore prepared for the future:
