GES1017 Singapore Water Story Lecture 14-9-16









>Discussion Questions

1. What were the challenges in the past and the success factors that led to the development of the 2 new national taps, namely, NEWater and Desalinated Water?
Pollution
Reliance on imported water and weather
Feeding the growth of the popultaion
Relocating the squatters from the Singapore river
Built DTSS to collect the sewage water
Convincing the public that NEWater is safe

2. What was the role of engineers in fulfilling the objectives of NEWater project?
Quality Control
Cost analysis
Build infrastructure (design and innovate, inc. DTSS)
Work there (operations, maintenance)
Risk assessment
Design and manage the process of cleaning the water
Communication skills
R&D

3. How did PUB close the Water Loop and enable Integrated Water Resources Management in Singapore?
Collect and recycle wastewater
Capture every drop of rain that falls on Singapore
To collect every drop of used water
Recycle every drop of water more than once

4. How did the government policy drive the innovation in water industry and ensure sustainability over the years?
Land usage allocation
ABC Waters Programme
Marina Barrage (it has a solar park)
R&D  and infrastructure
Demand management through education (saving water)
Scholarships to nurture talents in this field

5. Can or should Singapore develop another national tap? Why?
Global water scarcity, so important resource
Can channel resources into other areas




Homework due on 16 Oct

1) Marina Lake is one of 17 man-made reservoirs in Singapore. These freshwater reservoirs form one of four national taps. What are the remaining 3 national taps? What are advantages and disadvantages associated with each of national taps?

2) Marina Barrage is a complex engineering structure which needs to fulfil several objectives simultaneously. What are the three most prominent benefits provided by the barrage

3) List three main ideas behind ABC (Active, Beautiful, Clean) Water programme?